RRR[a] is a 2022 Indian Telugu-language epic action drama film directed by S. S. Rajamouli, who co-wrote the film with V. Vijayendra Prasad. It was produced by D. V. V. Danayya of DVV Entertainment. The film stars N. T. Rama Rao Jr., Ram Charan, Ajay Devgn, Alia Bhatt, Shriya Saran, Samuthirakani, Ray Stevenson, Alison Doody, and Olivia Morris. It centers around fictional versions of two Indian revolutionaries, Alluri Sitarama Raju (Charan) and Komaram Bheem (Rama Rao), their friendship, and their fight against the British Raj.

Rajamouli came across stories about the lives of Rama Raju and Bheem and connected the coincidences between them, imagining what would have happened had they met, and been friends. The film was announced in March 2018. Principal photography of the film began in November 2018 in Hyderabad and continued until August 2021, owing to delays caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. It was filmed extensively across India, with a few sequences filmed in Ukraine and Bulgaria. The film's soundtrack and background score were composed by M. M. Keeravani, with cinematography by K. K. Senthil Kumar and editing by A. Sreekar Prasad. Sabu Cyril is the film's production designer whilst V. Srinivas Mohan supervised the visual effects.

Made on a budget of ₹550 crore (US$72 million), RRR is the most expensive Indian film to date. The film was initially scheduled for theatrical release on 30 July 2020, which was postponed multiple times due to production delays and the COVID pandemic. RRR was released theatrically on 25 March 2022. With ₹240 crore (US$30 million) worldwide on its first day, RRR recorded the highest opening-day earned by an Indian film. It emerged as the highest-grossing film in its home market of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, grossing over ₹415 crore (US$52 million).[6] The film grossed ₹1,200 crore (US$150 million) – ₹1,258 crore (US$160 million) worldwide, setting several box office records for an Indian film, including the third highest-grossing Indian film and second highest-grossing Telugu film worldwide.[4][7]

RRR received universal praise for Rajamouli's direction, writing, performances (particularly Rama Rao and Charan), soundtrack, action sequences, cinematography and visual effects. The film was considered one of the ten best films of the year by the National Board of Review, making it only the second non-English language film ever to make it to the list.[8] The song "Naatu Naatu" won the Best Original Song award at the 95th Academy Awards, making it the first song from an Indian film, as well as the first from an Asian film, to win in this category.[9][10] The film became the third Indian film and first Telugu film to receive nominations at the Golden Globe Awards, including Best Foreign Language Film, and won Best Original Song for "Naatu Naatu", making it the first Indian (as well as the first Asian) nomination to win the award.[11][12] RRR also won the Best Foreign Language Film and the Best Song award at the 28th Critics' Choice Awards.

Plot
In 1920, during the British Raj, Governor Scott Buxton and his wife Catherine visit a forest in Adilabad and there abduct Malli, a young girl with a talent for artistry, from the Gond tribe. Enraged by this, the tribe's guardian Komaram Bheem embarks for Delhi to rescue her, disguising himself as a Muslim man named Akhtar. Elsewhere, the Nizamate of Hyderabad, sympathetic to the Raj, warns Scott's office of the impending danger. Undeterred, Catherine enlists A. Rama Raju, an ambitious officer in the Indian Imperial Police, to quell the threat. Seeking clues to Malli's whereabouts, Raju and his uncle, Venkateswarulu, attend several pro-independence gatherings where he feigns to support independence.

Months later, Lachhu, Bheem's gullible aide, is taken in by Raju's ruse and attempts to recruit him into Bheem's plot, but then discovers his true identity and flees. A short while later, Bheem and Raju encounter one other, unaware of their opposing allegiances. In the course of working in concert to save a boy from a train wreck, they form a friendship and over time grow close. Raju then assists Bheem in courting Jenny, Scott's niece, unaware that Bheem plans to infiltrate Scott's residence. When Jenny takes Bheem to her residence, Bheem locates the room where Malli is being held captive; he meets Malli and promises he will free her. Meanwhile, Raju deduces Lachhu's true identity and apprehends him. While being interrogated, Lachhu goads a banded krait into attacking Raju, then warns him of his imminent fate and that the antidote is only known to the Gonds.

Dazed, Raju approaches Bheem, who immediately tends to him. Noticing similar religious features between Lachhu and Bheem, Raju deduces his true intentions. Nevertheless, Bheem divulges his tribal identity and his mission, still unaware of Raju's true identity. At an event held in Scott's honor, Bheem's men barge into his residence with a lorry filled with wild animals, which creates havoc among the assembled guests. The animals maul Scott's guards, allowing Bheem to briefly fight; however, Raju arrives and tells him Scott intends to kill Malli; he surrenders out of obligation. In the aftermath of the incident, Raju is promoted for thwarting Bheem, yet he is absorbed with guilt over his own actions, recalling his own pro-nationalistic background and his actual alter-ego as a mole within the police; he was seeking a promotion in order to gain access to shipments of guns to smuggle to his village.

At Bheem's public flogging, Raju attempts to persuade him to recant his actions; Bheem chooses to be flogged instead. Bheem sings in defiance of his injuries, which incites the assembled crowd into rebellion. The riot further enlightens Raju, who finally realizes the recklessness of his actions. Determined to save his friend, he persuades Scott to execute Bheem in secret while preparing an ambush to rescue him. Scott figures out this scheme. While managing to rescue Malli from Scott's men, Raju is grievously injured. Bheem, who had also managed to free himself, mistakenly interprets Raju's actions as an attempt to kill Malli; he bludgeons him and escapes with her. Months later, Bheem, who is hiding out with his group and Malli in Hathras, is cornered by the colonial authorities. He narrowly avoids being exposed when Sita, Raju's fiancée, repels them by claiming a smallpox epidemic as a pretext.

Unaware of Bheem's identity, she reveals Raju's actual, anti-colonial objectives and of his impending execution. Crestfallen upon realizing his own folly, Bheem vows to save him. With the assistance of a sympathetic Jenny, Bheem infiltrates the barracks where Raju is detained and frees him, defeating the many soldiers he aroused in the process. The pair retreat to a nearby forest, where they decimate more soldiers with the use of a longbow taken from a Rama shrine. Taking the fight to Scott, they hurl a flaming motorcycle into the barracks' magazines, setting it afire. The subsequent explosion kills many within Scott's company, including Catherine. Having finally cornered a wounded Scott, Raju has Bheem execute him with a British rifle, fulfilling their respective objectives. They steal a cache of Scott's weaponry and reunite with Sita and Jenny.

To mark the completion of their missions, Raju asks Bheem to make a wish he can grant; Bheem asks Raju to provide education for him and his community.